In this lecture, you'll learn about ACL, Access Control List. An ACL identifies traffic based on characteristics
of the packet that's going to go through the router such as its source IP address and/or its destination
IP address and/or the layer four port number. The router or switch can take an action
then, based on the result of the ACL. ACLs are supported on both routers and switches.
But if I say router or switch, router and switch, every time in this section, I'll be saying it 500 times
a lecture.
So I would just refer to routers.
But whenever I say routers, it applies to switches as well.
The original use of ACL was a security feature which helped decide if traffic should be allowed to
pass through the router or not. And if you talk to somebody about ACL, that's still normally the first thing
they will think about. By default, a router will allow all traffic to pass between its interfaces and by default,
ACLs are not applied.
But when ACLs are applied, the router identifies traffic and then decides if it will be allowed or not.
But ACLs are not just used for security nowadays, but are also used in many other software policies
when traffic has to be identified. For example, to identify traffic, to give better service to in
a QoS, Quality of Service policy, or to identify traffic to translate to a different IP address
and a NAT, Network Address
Translation policy. We'' be covering both QoS and NAT in later sections and you'll see how to use ACLs
to control them then.
Access control lists are made up of Access Control Entries, ACE, which are a series of permit or
deny rules. And each ACE is written in a separate line that makes up the ACL.
So here's an example of an access control entry. The command syntax is access-list to start, then a number
such as 100. There's actually special meaning to the numbers. We'll get to that in the next lecture.
Then the action, which will be a permit or deny, then the protocol such as TCP or UDP or ICMP.
Then we get to the source section and there is a field for the IP, and then for the wildcard mask, then
a qualifier such as a less than or greater than or equal and then the source port number.
Then the next section is about the destination.
We've got the destination IP address, the destination wildcard mask, a qualifier again and then the
destination port.
So that is the syntax of an access control entry.
And when we're writing our access control list, it's made up of multiple access control entries.
So you can see here's an example of an ACL.
We've got access-list 100 deny tcp,
10.10.10.10
0.0.0.0.
So that would be the particular host. When the source port number is greater than 49151,
and it's going a destination 10.10.50.10
0.0.0.0, so it's going a particular host again and when the destination port number is 23. And then
we've got three other access control entries and all of these together make up the rules that control
the traffic that's going to be allowed or not allowed going through the router.
OK, so that is an overview of access control list.
In the next lecture we're going to start digging deeper into the syntax of the ACL, starting with that
number at the start.
100 in this example and what that means.
See you in the next lecture.